Initial commit [API-157] (#1)
hazelcast-guides/python-client-getting-started: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/python-client-getting-started.adoc

Create a file named tutorial.py

Put the following code inside of tutorial.py.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient()

client.shutdown()
----
To run this Python script, use the following command in the terminal.

[source, bash]
python3 tutorial.py

First line imports the Hazelcast Python client.

Following line creates and starts a new Hazelcast Client. To configure the client, you can check https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client.html#hazelcast.client.HazelcastClient[API documentation].

== Use Map

A Hazelcast map is a distributed key-value store, similar to Python Map structure. In the following example, we will work with map entries where the keys are session ids and the values are emails.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient()

some_map = client.get_map("some-map").blocking()

some_map.set("12345", "example1@email.com")
some_map.set("12346", "example2@email.com")

entries = some_map.entry_set()

for key, value in entries:
    print(f"{key} -> {value}")

client.shutdown()
----

The output snippet is
[source, bash]
----
12346 -> example2@email.com
12345 -> example1@email.com
----

> Since Hazelcast clients work asynchronous, our output is not in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Hazelcast clients work asynchronously, the output is not in order.
```

Author: Done.

> Following line returns a map proxy object for the `some-map` named map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following line returns a map proxy object for the map with name `some-map`.
```

Author: Done.

[source, python]
some_map = client.get_map("some-map").blocking()

> If there is not a map named `some-map`, it will be automatically created. All the clients connected to the same cluster will have access to same map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `some-map` doesn't exist, it will be automatically created. All the clients connected to the same cluster will have access to the same map.
```

Author: Done.

You may wonder why we have used `blocking()` method over the `get_map()`. This returns a version of this proxy with only blocking (sync) method calls, which is better for getting started. For async calls, please check our https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client.html#hazelcast.client.HazelcastClient[API documentation].

> With these lines, client adds data to our `some-map`. The first parameter is the key of the entry, the second one is the value as mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these lines, client adds data to `some-map`. The first parameter is the key of the entry, the second one is the value as mentioned above.
```

Author: Done.

[source, python]
----
some_map.set("12345", "example1@email.com")
some_map.set("12346", "example2@email.com")
----

Then, we get the values with the `entry_set()` method.

> Finally, `client.shutdown()` shutdowns our client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, `client.shutdown()` terminates our client and release its resources.
```

Author: Done.

== Add a Listener to the Map

> You can add entry listener using the `add_entry_listener()` method available on map proxy object. This will allow you to listen to certain events that happen in the map across the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add an entry listener using the `add_entry_listener()` method of the map proxy object. This enables your code to listen to map events of that particular map.
```

Author: Done.

= Getting Started with the Python Client
:page-layout: tutorial
:page-product: imdg
:page-categories: Caching, Getting Started
:page-lang: python3
:page-est-time: 5-10 mins
:description: This tutorial will get you started with the Hazelcast Python client.

== What You Will Learn

{description}

== Before You Begin

* A text editor

> * Hazelcast Cluster. You can use any of them below. In this tutorial, local cluster will be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Hazelcast Cluster. You can use any of them below. In this tutorial, a local cluster will be used.
```

Author: Done.

** Local Hazelcast Cluster

** https://hazelcast.com/products/viridian/[Hazelcast Viridian] (Free account is available.)

* Python 3.6+

> * Windows, Linux/UNIX or Mac OS X

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this one

Author: okay.

> == Installing Hazelcast Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Starting Hazelcast Cluster
```

Author: Done.

1. Go to https://hazelcast.com/open-source-projects/downloads/[Hazelcast Open Source Downloads] and download either the .zip or .tar distribution of Hazelcast.

2. Decompress the contents into any directory that you want to run members from.

3. Change into the directory that you decompressed the Hazelcast content and then into the bin directory.

4. To start the cluster, use either hz-start or hz-start.bat depending on your operating system. Once you run the start script, you should see the Hazelcast logs in the terminal.

> == Installing and Starting with the Client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Installing and Starting the Client
```

Author: DOne.

[source, bash]
pip3 install hazelcast-python-client

Create a file named tutorial.py

Put the following code inside of tutorial.py.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient()

client.shutdown()
----
To run this Python script, use the following command in the terminal.

[source, bash]
python3 tutorial.py

First line imports the Hazelcast Python client.

Following line creates and starts a new Hazelcast Client. To configure the client, you can check https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client.html#hazelcast.client.HazelcastClient[API documentation].

== Use Map

A Hazelcast map is a distributed key-value store, similar to Python Map structure. In the following example, we will work with map entries where the keys are session ids and the values are emails.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient()

some_map = client.get_map("some-map").blocking()

some_map.set("12345", "example1@email.com")
some_map.set("12346", "example2@email.com")

entries = some_map.entry_set()

for key, value in entries:
    print(f"{key} -> {value}")

client.shutdown()
----

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

The output snippet is
[source, bash]
----
12346 -> example2@email.com
12345 -> example1@email.com
----

> Since Hazelcast clients work asynchronous, the output is not in order.

Reviewer 2: This is not correct, the output is not in order because iteration over the entry set does not follow the insertion order. Note that, since we are using `blocking` proxy here, it is not asynchronous.

Author: You are right, updated.

Following line returns a map proxy object for the map with name `some-map`.

[source, python]
some_map = client.get_map("some-map").blocking()

If `some-map` doesn't exist, it will be automatically created. All the clients connected to the same cluster will have access to the same map.

You may wonder why we have used `blocking()` method over the `get_map()`. This returns a version of this proxy with only blocking

> (sync) method calls, which is better for getting started. For async calls, please check our https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client.html#hazelcast.client.HazelcastClient[API documentation].

Reviewer 2: This link does not provide any information for the async APIs. The code snippet in this section mentions about it a bit though https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/#usage

Author: I updated.

= Getting Started with the Python Client
:page-layout: tutorial
:page-product: imdg
:page-categories: Caching, Getting Started
:page-lang: python3
:page-est-time: 5-10 mins
:description: This tutorial will get you started with the Hazelcast Python client.

== What You Will Learn

{description}

== Before You Begin

* A text editor

* Hazelcast Cluster. You can use any of them below. In this tutorial, local cluster will be used.

** Local Hazelcast Cluster

> ** Hazelcast Viridian (Free version is available.)

Reviewer: "Free version is available." to maybe: "Free account"

Author: Okay.

* Python 3.6+

* Windows, Linux/UNIX or Mac OS X

> == Installing Hazelcast Cluster

Reviewer: Could you put a blank line after headers?

Author: All done.

== Installing and Starting with the Client

Create a new folder by

[source, bash]
mkdir hazelcast-python-client-getting-started

Navigate to that folder by

[source, bash]
cd hazelcast-python-client-getting-started

Hazelcast Python Client can be installed by pip3. Run the following command.

[source, bash]
pip3 install hazelcast-python-client

Create a file named tutorial.py

Put the following code inside of tutorial.py.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient()

client.shutdown()
----
To run this Python script, use the following command in the terminal.

[source, bash]
python3 tutorial.py

First line imports the Hazelcast Python client.

Following line creates and starts a new Hazelcast Client. To configure the client, you can check https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client.html#hazelcast.client.HazelcastClient[API documentation].

== Use Map

A Hazelcast map is a distributed key-value store, similar to Python Map structure. In the following example, we will work with map entries where the keys are session ids and the values are emails.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient()

> some_map = client.get_map("some-map")

Reviewer: I think it's easier for the beginners to use the sync API. Otherwise, the set queries below should be modified to wait for the response (after doing all set operations).

some_map.set("12345", "example1@email.com")
some_map.set("12346", "example2@email.com")

entries = some_map.entry_set().result()

for key, value in entries:
    print("%s -> %s" % (key, value))

client.shutdown()
----

The output snippet is
[source, bash]
----
example1@email.com
example2@email.com
----

Since Hazelcast clients work asynchronous, our output is not in order.

Following line returns a map proxy object for the 'some-map' named map.

[source, python]
some_map = client.get_map("some-map")

> If there is not a map named ”some-map”, it will be automatically created. All the clients connected to the same cluster will have access to same map.

Reviewer: Could you fix the quotes around some-map ? It may be better to write it in backticks. Same comment for similar text.

Author: Okay, fixing all of them.

With these lines, client adds data to our “some-map”. The first parameter is the key of the entry, the second one is the value as mentioned above.

[source, python]
----
some_map.set("12345", "example1@email.com")
some_map.set("12346", "example2@email.com")
----

> Then, we get the the values with the entry_set().result() method. You may wonder why we have used result()method over the entry_set(). This is because the Hazelcast Python client is designed to be fully asynchronous. Every method call over distributed objects such as put(), get(), entry_set(), etc. will return a https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#concurrent.futures.Future[Future] object that is similar to the Future class of the https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#module-concurrent.futures[concurrent.futures] module.

Reviewer: Let's remove the reference to the Python3 `Future`. The `Future` in the Python client is different from the Python3 one, although they have the similar concept.

Author: I have added it while searching docs. Here is what I referenced [link](https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting_started.html#:~:text=You%20may%20wonder,concurrent.futures%20module.)

Reviewer: This sentence is is wrong:

> Every method call over distributed objects such as put(), get(), entry_set(), etc. will return a https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#concurrent.futures.Future[Future] object

The Future we return resembles the Python 3 one, but it's not the same.

If you want to keep the references, then you should link to the Future class in our codebase.

Author: Okay. Removed it updated according to that removal.

With this design choice, method calls over the distributed objects can be executed asynchronously without blocking the execution order of your program.

Finally, client.shutdown() shutdowns our client.

== Add a Listener to the Map

You can add entry listener using the add_entry_listener() method available on map proxy object. This will allow you to listen to certain events that happen in the map across the cluster.

> The first argument to add_entry_listener() method is includeValue. It is a boolean parameter, and if it is true, the entry event contains the entry value. In this example, it will be true.

Reviewer: Could you write parameters and other code-related things in backticks?

Author: Okay, updating.

The second argument to add_entry_listener() method is an object that is used to define listeners. In this example, we registered listeners for the “added”, “removed” and “updated” events.

[source, python]
----
import hazelcast

def entry_added(event):

>     print("Entry added with key: %s, value: %s" % (event.key, event.value))

Reviewer: Let's use f-strings instead of `%` formatting.

Author: Done.

email2 = some_map.get("12346").result()

print('Email 1: %s' % email1)
print('Email 2: %s' % email2)

client.shutdown()
----

First, the map is cleared to fire events even if there are some entries in the map. Then, two session entries are added, and they are logged. After that, we remove one of the entries and update the other one. Then, we log the session entries again.

The output is as follows.

[source, bash]
----
Entry added with key: 12345, value: example1@email.com
Entry added with key: 12346, value: example2@email.com
Email 1: example1@email.com
Email 2: example2@email.com
Entry removed with key: 12345
Entry updated with key: 12346, old value: example2@email.com, new value: example1@email.com
Email 1: None
Email 2: example1@email.com
----
The value of the first entry becomes None since it is removed.

== Summary

In this tutorial, you learned how to get started with Hazelcast Python Client using a distributed map.

== See Also

There are a lot of things that you can do with Python Client. For more, such as how you can query a map with predicates and SQL, check out our https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-python-client[Python Client repository].

> If you have any questions, suggestions, or feedback please do not hesitate to reach out to us via https://slack.hazelcast.com/[Hazelcast Community Slack]. Also, please take a look at https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-nodejs-client/issues[the issue list] if you would like to contribute to the client.

Reviewer: Should the Node.js client link removed?

Author: Yes, my bad. Fixed
